hi there it's Jared plane and welcome
back
bass lesson in this lesson we're going
to continue on with the introduction to
improvisation collection of lessons by
taking a look at guide tones guide tunes
are one of the best ways to approach
improvising over a chord progression
improvisation can be a very daunting
task
so as improvisers we need all the help
that we can get guy tones are a useful
roadmap to get through the changes so
what our guide tones guide tones are a
series of notes usually chord tones that
are built off of each chord in the chord
progression these chord tones are
usually joined together by tone or
semitone movement here is an example
let's take a look at this very common
chord progression F minor seven B flat
minor 7 e flat seven and a flat major
seven ten points if you can guess which
tune this comes from the guide tone line
starts with the a flat note on F - 7
which is the minor third it then stays
on a flat which becomes the flat seventh
of a b-flat - seven the guide tone line
then moves down to G which is the major
3rd on e-flat 7 and it stays on G to
become the major seventh of a flat major
seven here's what it sounds like
once you're comfortable with the sound
of the guide tone line try playing a few
improvise lines using it as your roadmap
guide tone lines don't always have to
move by tone or semitone larger
intervals can be used as well take a
look at this example the guide tone line
uses just the thirds on each chord for F
-7 a flat B flat minor 7 uses D flat E
flat 7 uses G and a flat major 7 uses C
first play the guide turn line a few
times to become comfortable without
sounds and then you can use it as your
roadmap for improvisation
that's the concept in a nutshell now
just come up with a few guide tone lines
over tunes that you find challenging
this approach has greatly helped my solo
playing and it will do wonders for yours
as well that's all we have time for in
this lesson if you have any questions
comments or suggestions as always please
feel free to leave me a comment thanks
very much and take care
you